README.md, before:

# Go-tests

## CheckLists :star:

-   Golang Test Driven Development
-   Unit Testing in golang
-   Testing package in golang
-   Execute test Case in parallel


### TDD- Benefits

- Small regression suite

  - You have test case around all code and if you change any part of
    code and if you chnage any part of code for a new feature you will
    get advanced feeback incase something in code.

- Reduction in Bugs
- Cleaner and Simple Code
- TDD follows a methodology i.e ( RED, GREEN , REFRACTOR)
    <details>
    <summary>TDD methodology</summary>

  | methodology | Desc                                           |
  | ----------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
  | `RED`       | Write a test case that gives error.            |
  | `GREEN`     | Do changes to code to make the test case pass. |
  | `REFRACTOR` | If need some Refractoring do it here.          |

    </details>

- Avoids duplication of Code
- Refractoring code improves the code
- TDD drive the code design and approach
- Productivity increase

### TDD Test Steps:

Following steps define how to perform TDD test,

- Add a test.
- Run all tests and see if any new test fails.
- Write some code.
- Run tests and Refactor code.
- Repeat.

### Structure of a test case:

- SetUp: gets the UUT(unit under test ready : dependencies that have to be injected or input paramters , initiate this here ),unit can be particular module , functions, struct and others..
- Execution: trigger or run the UUT and capture all output like return value and output parameters
- Validation: Check if the output matches the expected output.
- Cleanup: restore the UUT on the actual or old state , letting the other test to start from its execution.

### Unit test

      - A unit test is a program that tests a unit component by all possible means and compares the result to the expected output.
      - Unit Components : functions, struct, methods,

```unit test sample
### Unit test sample
- basic structure of a unit test in Go. The built-in testing package is provided by the Go’s standard library.
- A unit test is a function that accepts the  argument of type *testing.T and calls the Error (or any other
- error methods which we will see later) on it. This function must start with Test keyword and the latter name
- should start with an uppercase letter (for example, TestMultiply and not Testmultiply).


import "testing"
func TestAbc(t *testing.T) {
    t.Error() // to indicate test failed
}

```

### Colorize test output:

- green color for the passed test
- red color for failed tests,
- (install using go get -u github.com/rakyll/gotest command).
- Run using : go test -v -run TestHelloValidArgs | go test -v -run TestHello

### Test Coverage

```
It is the measurement of how many lines of code in your package were executed when you ran your test suit (compared to total lines in your code). Go provide built-in functionality to check your code coverage.

- go test -coverprofile=cover.text

```

Commit message:

feat:first test case done

README.md, after:

# Go-tests

## CheckLists :star:

-   Golang Test Driven Development
-   Unit Testing in golang
-   Testing package in golang
-   Execute test Case in parallel


### TDD- Benefits

- Small regression suite

  - You have test case around all code and if you change any part of
    code and if you chnage any part of code for a new feature you will
    get advanced feeback incase something in code.

- Reduction in Bugs
- Cleaner and Simple Code
- TDD follows a methodology i.e ( RED, GREEN , REFRACTOR)
    <details>
    <summary>TDD methodology</summary>

  | methodology | Desc                                           |
  | ----------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
  | `RED`       | Write a test case that gives error.            |
  | `GREEN`     | Do changes to code to make the test case pass. |
  | `REFRACTOR` | If need some Refractoring do it here.          |

    </details>

- Avoids duplication of Code
- Refractoring code improves the code
- TDD drive the code design and approach
- Productivity increase

### TDD Test Steps:

Following steps define how to perform TDD test,

- Add a test.
- Run all tests and see if any new test fails.
- Write some code.
- Run tests and Refactor code.
- Repeat.

### Structure of a test case:

- SetUp: gets the UUT(unit under test ready : dependencies that have to be injected or input paramters , initiate this here ),unit can be particular module , functions, struct and others..
- Execution: trigger or run the UUT and capture all output like return value and output parameters
- Validation: Check if the output matches the expected output.
- Cleanup: restore the UUT on the actual or old state , letting the other test to start from its execution.

### Unit test

      - A unit test is a program that tests a unit component by all possible means and compares the result to the expected output.
      - Unit Components : functions, struct, methods,

```unit test sample
### Unit test sample
- basic structure of a unit test in Go. The built-in testing package is provided by the Go’s standard library.
- A unit test is a function that accepts the  argument of type *testing.T and calls the Error (or any other
- error methods which we will see later) on it. This function must start with Test keyword and the latter name
- should start with an uppercase letter (for example, TestMultiply and not Testmultiply).
- unit components can be functions, structs, methods make sure inputs to this components never break application.


import "testing"
func TestAbc(t *testing.T) {
    t.Error() // to indicate test failed
}

```

### Colorize test output:

- green color for the passed test
- red color for failed tests,
- (install using go get -u github.com/rakyll/gotest command).
- Run using : go test -v -run TestHelloValidArgs | go test -v -run TestHello

### Running Test:
- If you have lots of test files with test functions but you want to selectively run few, you can use -run flag to match test functions with their name - go test -v -run TestHelloEmptyArgs

### Test Coverage

```
It is the measurement of how many lines of code in your package were executed when you ran your test suit (compared to total lines in your code). Go provide built-in functionality to check your code coverage.

- go test -coverprofile=cover.text

```
